---
layout: post
title: "Patches"
description: "I got this great idea to move my little blog here over to a different platform. Only problem was I really wasn't totally familiar with how that new platform worked. But I ended up using it for something else after I learned it."
---
So, I ran into a bit of a problem a few weeks ago. I got this great idea to move my little blog here over to a different platform. Only problem was I really wasn't totally familiar with how that new platform worked.

I recently heard of [Octopress](http://octopress.org). It's a static site generator that is built on Jekyll and has a nice little responsive theme right out the box. I thought *great, I'll just move my blog over to that and it will be might nice*. What I didn't realize until too late was that in order to deploy Octopress to Github, I would actually be generating the site locally and then just deploying the static files up to Github. With just straight Jekyll, I am able to deploy everything Jekyll needs to Github, and Github takes care of generating the site. I like this because I can write a post from anywhere I'm able to access Github. I don't have to be on my personal computer, or download all of the source to some other machine. I can just create a new markdown file and go. Not so with Octopress.

Like I said, I realized this a little too late, so I needed to revert everything (luckily I made a backup of my original Jekyll set up), and then I had a heck of a time clearing out the Github repo so that it was fresh. Learned a thing or two about how Github (or just git in general) keeps track of what needs to be pushed and what's changed, etc. But I finally got everything patched back together a couple weeks ago. This is why I haven't posted much in the last month.

But, I liked Octopress enough where I wanted to use it for something. I had been throwing the idea around in my head to do some kind of website for my new daughter, Kaiya. I decided to kind of do a gamification theme and give her digital patches for her achievements. Normal things like rolling over, crawling, talking, walking, etc. I configured Octopress to deploy the site to a directory in my existing Jekyll site, and that works out quite well. I create a new post in the Octopress site, generate that site which sticks it in /kaiya in my Jekyll repo, and then commit the repo to Github. So those posts I need to be on my personal machine for, but I'll most likely be home when I put those together anyway.

Also, I took this opportunity to learn more about SVG. All the patch images are done with SVG. I grab the main icons from a couple [free](http://raphaeljs.com/icons/) [sources](http://game-icons.net/) and then use [svg-edit](http://svg-edit.googlecode.com/svn/branches/2.6/editor/svg-editor.html), a free online svg editor, to put them together.

So, now I have my blog back and a new little website for [Kaiya's achievements](http://keithwyland.com/kaiya/). Fun!