---
layout: post
title: "9,886"
description: "According to the Github repo page, that's how many other people have starred jekyll."
---

According to the Github repo page, that's how many other people have starred <a href="https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll">jekyll</a> besides me. So, I'm not the first to this tech, and it's nothing new, but neither of those is the point.

I really enjoy sharing knowledge, and I really like doing front-end web development. For some reason, there's always been this hurdle between me and the logical form of publicly sharing knowledge these days, AKA blogging.

I had set up Wordpress blogs in the past and had a personal site with just static HTML files that I would update, but it never stuck. I'm hoping that changes starting today. Actually, I'm doing more than hoping and wishing, I'm acting on it.

Recently, I've kept hearing about jekyll. I've used <a href="http://html5boilerplate.com">HTML5 Boilerplate</a> and just recently saw they offered a <a href="http://www.initializr.com/">responsive version</a> of it that has some super basic design built in. It's taken me a few days, but I've put the two together and thrown them on github. I'll most likely tweak the design of the boilerplate as well as the configuration of Jekyll, but the point is these tools are helping boost me over the hurdle. There's not much to think about when setting these things up which means not much between me and actually blogging.

I have experiences to share just like the rest of the web development and design community. I am going to do my best to share something at least once a week here. That may be a list of links that I've found useful in my daily adventures, or a particualar technical challenge and how I learned to get past it.

See my <a href="/about.html">About</a> page for (not much) more details.